# 英文面试



## 一、常用地道表达

### 日常用语 

- Let's get down to our business
- it occurs to me that ...
- in some sorts
- honestly saying 



### 技术相关

- Development circle      is subjected to      progressive iterations
- Once I’m done with a task, I submit my code for review. I upload it to the testing server and to Azure DevOps with a comment on what I’ve done and why any changes I’ve made and instructions on how to test it. 
- 





### 非技术相关

- Communication between    your team and the client      should remain constant at this step. 
- The client should be informed throughout all the design and development stages to ensure that the final website matches their needs, taste, and vision. 
- Idea exchange and brainstorming are crucial at this step. 



### 面试套话

- In fact, I don't have any specific questions, but I do wanna insist that my language level might have in sort hold me back from expressing what I wanna say, but I do hope that I could have the chance to work within you and show you my professionalism.



## 二、常见问题



### 自我介绍

My name is LUO Ran, and you can just call Lo, in college I specialized in French Culture and Literature, but in 2020, I decided to change my professional field and it was in that year, I became a backend developer, 

**by now** I have 2 yrs experience in Java development.

 

My technicals skill, as you can see in my resume, include JAVA basics, database and SQL, 

framework such as springboot, SSM, mybatis, JPA etc. but also, some necessary middleware insuring performance under a high concurrency situation, like Redis and rabbitMQ. In all, 

I believe having most of the IT skills needed to be in a efficient development team.



As for my last work experience, I was in a dozen-employees development team, 

my daily task contained coding, working on immediate requests and bugs, of course 

and product related technical documents. 

If you wanna know more about the projects I was in, we could talk about it later.



Well, that's all for my presentation, 

think you again for giving me this interview opportunity



### 转行实现

After graduation, my **first job** was French teacher in a College, 

but 2 years later, I realized I **could never get what I want** as a  French teacher, 

plus, honestly saying, teaching French for all my life **wasn't not really challenging**, 

I **want something different in life**. 

So in the beginning of 2020, I **quit and enrolled in a crash course** class for half of year, 

that was **literally a 996 way life,** but I went through and finally become a junior Java developer in august 2020.



### 项目介绍







### 算法

The problems from LeetCode are contrived, and you likely aren’t going to encounter a dynamic programming problem or a “Reverse a Linked List problem” in real life. 

On a detailed technical level, algorithms such as BFS/DFS and data structures like Trees, Queues, and Heaps are all used more frequently on the day-to-day job than you might think. Skills like manipulating pointers on a data structure like a Linked List or a Tree correlates pretty well with picking up the logic to manipulate pointers when dealing with memory management. 

On a higher level, the ability to clarify inputs, detect edge cases, and code quickly and accurately in a short period of time while communicating clearly are all great skills to have on the job. 



### 个人优势介绍



solution-oriented
efficiency
sense of cuoriosity
communications
profesionnal





### 如何解决问题

how do you usually solve problem ?

When I encounter problems or tricky bugs, 

first of all, like every developer, I would try to find solution on the Internet, Stack Overflow or its Chinese equivalent CSDN or any other framework website, in the most cases, that can help me to identify what went wrong, it took time but usually it can work out ;

but if I can't or if the project was in a hurry, than I would seek help from colleagues, priority is to keep our schedule on time.



### 开发流程

**What is your development process ?**

- development process or protocol varies one group to another

> graphical design : a prototype is typically a static image, which represents the final look of the website. A good idea is to **create clickable prototypes** to help the client feel the website before development begins.  
>
> 
>
> the step that we as backend developer were get involved, is when the graphic designer finished the ultimate UI web page layout ;
>
> 
>
> define all the interfaces that we gonna develop, in this step, all the details will be listed, like the url naming, request methods, arguments and returns, their data types, etc. ;
>
> 
>
> go through a plan review conference, where the whole group gather, including tester, frontend backend colleagues, QA, PM, to hearing from developer, we present roughly a pre and people discuss --> make sure the final output will be as flawless as possible ;
>
> 
>
> and than there goes the coding period, we complete a function and postman to make sure it works just the way we want ;
>
> 
>
> the module of which I hold responsibility should be ready before deadline, drew in the schedule ;
>
> 
>
> and then of course the test team goes in, debugging, before we introduce our client, another vague of debugging and adjusting ;
>
> 
>
> finally, the website can go live, iteration after iteration, we do our maintenance, and if necessary, optimize the structure and modules
>
> 
















### 日常工作

what are your daily tasks ?

I was in a dozen-employees development team, my daily task contained coding, working on immediate requests and bugs, of course and product related technical documents. 



### 如何定义一个好的网站

What's your definition of a good website ?





### 如何定义一个好的接口

What's your definition of a good interface ?







### 印象深刻的Bug及解决办法



# 三、具体问题

3.1. Can we change interceptors dynamically on runtime ?

- Interceptors are created on bean creation. Changing that (while maybe possible) will be impracticable ; 
- InterceptorRegistry which is the parameter while adding interceptors, turns out to be a final List, which means it can't be edited after creation, that explains why the class only has add methods, because it can be changed once created ;
- solution : create a interceptor bean with a configurable property as its field, which could be easily set on runtime, each time going into the intercept method, check the property and invoke the corresponding method.













